---
layout: post
title:  "The Collaborative Music Text, Freedman"
date:   "2022-11-21"
categories: jekyll update
---

In The Collaborative Music Text by Richard Freeman, the author discusses the future of digital music projects as the field continues to grow. As contributors continue to research digital music projects, Freeman wants to ensure that collaboration between contributors remains efficient and fair in the growing field. Freeman, himself, researched  Renaissance Music at as helped build multiple digital projects: Les Livres des chansons de Nicolas Du Chemin (1549–1568), The Lost Voices Project, Enhancing Music Addressability (EMA), and Citations: The Renaissance Imitation Mass (CRIM). The amount of work Freeman has done in the music digital space makes him a reputable person on how the future of digital music projects should be shaped.
The first doctrine that Freeman mentions is, “Collaboration: not for, but with.” What Freeman means by this quote is that digital work should be done with someone instead of for someone. The distinction here is that projects researchers work on should be understandable by researchers in similar spaces and be supportive of their work. The example Freeman gives is that for the Lost Voices project he had to change the format of the documents to support the Music Encoding Initiative standard which allowed groups around to utilize his project easier.
The second idea Freeman had was researchers needed to keep in mind, “Users first, platform second.” What Freeman means by this is that contributors need to build platforms that answer the questions of the Users and allow them to navigate through the platform. This is in contrast to a platform that might have highly complex functionality, but the user could have a hard time using the platform, or it might not help the user find the questions they are researching.
After looking at this reading, I am curious to learn more about how other Digital Humanities researchers outside of the music sector are approaching their projects. Are they working on their projects with the doctrines of Freeman in mind? What are their priorities and consideration when making a platform?
