---
layout: post
title:  "Walker"
date:   "2022-10-31"
categories: jekyll update
---

In “Getting Data for Digital Humanities with APIs: A Gentle Introduction” by Abigail Walker, Walker dives into APIs. She looks into what they are, when they are useful, where to find APIs, and how to use them. She defines APIs, also known as Application Programming Interface, as a a way for parts of software systems to talk to each other. In the application of a digital humanities projects, APIs can be used to gather data in a readable format. In order to access an API, a request is made by using a URL which will provide the web server with all the information it needs to send back the right returns.

In digital humanities specifically, APIs can allow people to get access to specific pieces of data from a large body of information. Furthermore, another usage of APIs can be the continuously updating data. When APIs are updated, for example, if another text is added to data set, then the program can automatically incorporate the updated data. Programmers can set a script to query an API at certain rates or times which will return data immediately.

APIs have become frequently more popular at libraries, archives, and museums. This is because by storing their collection through APIs, it makes the information more accessible to people using the information for digital humanities projects. This allows researchers to access information easily and look for findings that institutions did not know about.

A lot of APIS can be found through cultural heritage organizations. Other organizations like government sites, social media sites, and newspaper sites also have APIs. Using APIs allows these organization’s users to access information without needing to download a large amount of data and instead access a portion of the data.

After reading through this article, a couple of questions came to mind. I'm curious to learn more about the history of APIs. How did we decide this method was the best way for people and software to access information and read it?
