---
layout: post
title:  "Cooley"
date:   "2022-11-28"
categories: jekyll update
---

In “Why visual literacy is essential to good data visualization” Cooley emphasizes the importance of not only data visualization but visual literacy as well. Cooley describes the difference using a metaphor with music. Cooley says that good data literacy is like understanding the notes to a music sheet, which he compares to understanding the usages of means and medians and when to use one over the other. Visual literacy is the entire song, which will allow you to connect the data (notes) into a cohesive beautiful song. As Cooley puts it: “Data builds to insight, which can form a narrative. And narratives are what build to make a data story.”

When deciding how to represent data, Cooley breaks the choices down into two categories of Truth and Beauty. Tables, Dashboards, and Reports fall into the Truth category, while interactive maps, scrollable data stories, and Data Art fall into the Beauty Category. The difference between these two is that data literacy is mainly focused on the data itself. As a result, the representation is formatted in a way that limits the risk of interpretation. On the other hand, visual literacy increases the “beauty” of the data. This could help readers become more interested in the data, remember it better, and do further research. One of the biggest benefits of visual literacy is that it encourages people to explore the data themselves and find their own meaning to the data that is applicable to them. 

I am interested to learn more about how to create good visual literacy. What parts will enhance my user’s experience? Cooley recommends that data visualization practitioners need to look into color and shape theory, but there are other factors that could be important. What other things can we do to present our data better? Are there any studies that have been done about what visual literacy technique has created the most memorable experience for the user?
