---
layout: post
title:  "Wellmon"
date:   "2022-10-17"
categories: jekyll update
---

In Sacred reading: from Augustine to the Digital Humanists, Chad Wellmon explores the impact digital humanities has had on the way humans look at texts, particularly how one reads and what the purpose of reading is. Wellmon questions whether using large digital repositories and the “calculating machines of modernity” are the best ways to engage with written texts. Wellmon is worried that humanities scholars are becoming too technical and by doing so, will lose the “magical wonder” of the text. Wellmon recognizes that reading “topologically” with technology can help by mapping relationships between thousands of texts; however, Wellmon argues that this is not necessarily what the books or the purpose of reading is meant for. Wellmon says that all texts should be written with intention and purpose. Because of this, reading should not always be used to analyze word usage or patterns across texts but should be used to focus on each text individually. Wellmon uses the example of Augustine, who used reading as a transformative experience. Through the books that Augustine reads, Augustine learns and transforms himself to account for the knowledge he learned from reading each text. Despite this, Wellmon recognizes that reading for oneself is also not necessarily the best way to engage with texts. With so many different texts, it is hard to know which texts are beneficial to which person. It is important to realize that the mentality when reading is to have a “radical openness to something that exceeded both the self and the text”. Reading can be used to help find and improve oneself but also to understand people’s thoughts and ideas better. My question is will there ever be a point in technology where people can use technology to read books in a way where they can develop personal takeaways from the text?

https://go.gale.com/ps/i.do?p=AONE&u=mlin_m_tufts&id=GALE%7CA433588310&v=2.1&it=r&sid=bookmark-AONE&ugroup=outside
