---
layout: post
title:  "As We May Think, Bush"
date:   "2022-10-3"
categories: jekyll update
---

In “As We May Think” Vennevar Bush discusses the importance of increasing accessibility as scientists continue to research and accumulate knowledge. Bush recognizes that humans have made tremendous strides in research that continue to grow exponentially. Bush points out that none of the information will be necessary if the knowledge is not shared. Part of the knowledge is mastering communication between individuals. With efficient communication, knowledge is ensured to be passed throughout the life of a race, not stopping at any single individual. Researching how to efficiently communicate is the knowledge that Bush shares with us in his Atlantic Article.

A large part of storing knowledge is collecting that information. One communication method that humans have developed to collect information is photography. Bush recognizes that photography has improved since its invention and will only continue to become better. Bush argues that none of those developments of photography will be important unless people use the technology to good use. As photographs improve, technology like printers and TVs also benefit. Technology creation can have compounding effects like compression. According to Bush the entire, Encyclopedia Britannica compressed can fit all on one 8.5 x 11 sheets of paper even though there are tens of thousands of volumes of pages. This is another example of using technology to improve existing tools. This highlights the process of how humans began with collecting information and learning to store it.

As we store this knowledge, we can also use technology to do increasingly more analysis of the data that we collect. Machines have been programmed to do quick calculations and understand millions of data points. This has made Machines an efficient tool to analyze the data and information we store. Bush recognizes that Machines are also continuously evolving and becoming more and more complex and niche. Bush points out that because of this, it is important to make sure that the data and information continue to also become versatile so machines can continue to use the information as they evolve. This ensures that no information is lost because of the evolution of a machine.

Is there any information that we might not want to pass down to other generations? Are there certain things that we would like to keep hidden and forgotten?
